computer science, the study of computers and computing, including their theoretical and algorithmic foundations,
hardware and software, and their uses for processing information. The discipline of computer science includes the
study of algorithms and data structures, computer and network design, modeling data and information processes, and
artificial intelligence. Computer science draws some of its foundations from mathematics and engineering and therefore
incorporates techniques from areas such as queueing theory, probability and statistics, and electronic circuit design.
Computer science also makes heavy use of hypothesis testing and experimentation during the conceptualization, design,
measurement, and refinement of new algorithms, information structures, and computer architectures. The major subfields
of computer science include the traditional study of computer architecture, programming languages, and software development.
However, they also include computational science (the use of algorithmic techniques for modeling scientific data), graphics
and visualization, human-computer interaction, databases and information systems, networks, and the social and professional
issues that are unique to the practice of computer science. As may be evident, some of these subfields overlap in their
activities with other modern fields, such as bioinformatics and computational chemistry. These overlaps are the consequence
of a tendency among computer scientists to recognize and act upon their field’s many interdisciplinary connections. Computer
science emerged as an independent discipline in the early 1960s, although the electronic digital computer that is the object
of its study was invented some two decades earlier. The roots of computer science lie primarily in the related fields of
mathematics, electrical engineering, physics, and management information systems.Mathematics is the source of two key concepts
in the development of the computer—the idea that all information can be represented as sequences of zeros and ones and the
abstract notion of a “stored program.” In the binary number system, numbers are represented by a sequence of the binary digits
0 and 1 in the same way that numbers in the familiar decimal system are represented using the digits 0 through 9. The relative
ease with which two states (e.g., high and low voltage) can be realized in electrical and electronic devices led naturally
to the binary digit, or bit, becoming the basic unit of data storage and transmission in a computer system. information system,
an integrated set of components for collecting, storing, and processing data and for providing information, knowledge, and
digital products. Business firms and other organizations rely on information systems to carry out and manage their operations,
interact with their customers and suppliers, and compete in the marketplace. Information systems are used to run inter
organizational supply chains and electronic markets. For instance, corporations use information systems to process financial
accounts, to manage their human resources, and to reach their potential customers with online promotions. Many major companies
are built entirely around information systems. These include eBay, a largely auction marketplace; Amazon, an expanding electronic
mall and provider of cloud computing services; Alibaba, a business-to-business e-marketplace; and Google, a search engine company
that derives most of its revenue from keyword advertising on Internet searches. Governments deploy information systems to provide
services cost-effectively to citizens. Digital goods—such as electronic books, video products, and software—and online services,
such as gaming and social networking, are delivered with information systems. Individuals rely on information systems, generally
Internet-based, for conducting much of their personal lives: for socializing, study, shopping, banking, and entertainment.
